# SyGuS Solver



## GETTING STARTED
<!---
### Option 1: Use Pre-Built Docker Image (ARM64 / Apple Silicon)
Download the docker image `image.tar` and run this on the command line:
```
docker load < image.tar
```
This loads the docker image `synth`.
-->

### Option 1: Build Docker Image

Download the code from here and do this on the command line:
```
    docker build . -t synth
```
Within the docker image, the artifact is located here: `/artifact`.


### Option 2: Manual installation

  0. Install prerequisites as in Docker File
  1. Download the code from here.
  2. Build the application:
     ```
       cd path/to/artifact
       mkdir build
       cd build
       cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE
       make
     ```
  3. If there are errors related to z3 (happening on Ubuntu), try running:
```
cd _deps/z3-build
make install # this might need sudo
```
and then build the application again:
```
cd ../..
make
```
4. If there are errors related to the Lexer and Parser cpp files generated by AntLR, try copying slightly modified files:
```
cp ../Docker/SygusLexer.cpp antlr4_generated_src/sygusparser/SygusLexer.cpp
cp ../Docker/SygusParser.cpp antlr4_generated_src/sygusparser/SygusParser.cpp
```
and then build the application again:
```
make
```

### Implementation Structure
The folder `ast` contains classes implementing literals, variables and operations, mimicking the SMT implementation.
The folder `benchmarks` contains a benchmarks suite adapted from PROBE.
The folder `Tests` contains a test suite (for the ast objects).
The folders `thirdparty` and `antlr4-runtime` contain foreign code.
The folder `SMTProcesses` contains implementations of the class `SMTProcess.h`. 
They handle interaction with the SMT Solver. 
Currently, Z3 and CVC5 are supported.
The class `SyGuSFileTask` handles the interaction with the parser and creates many instances of `VocabMaker` put into the `VocabFactory` which organizes the makers into leaf makers and non-leave makers.
A `VocabMaker` is used to generate an `ASTNode` or to retrieve the function of an operation.
The class `IOExample` represents an input-output example.
The class `Helper` contains useful definitions and helper functions.
The entry point for the program is `main.cpp` which in turn creates a `Solver`.
The `Solver` implements the CEGIS Loop interacting with an enumerator from the folder `enumeration`.
The folder `enumeration` contains different implementations of enumerators, e.g. height-based and size-based.


